---
title: Certificate Renewal
authors:
  - "@joshvanl"
reviewers:
  - "@joshvanl"
  - "@munnerz"
approvers:
  - "@joshvanl"
  - "@munnerz"
editor: "@joshvanl"
creation-date: 2019-09-14
last-updated: 2019-09-20
status: implementable
---

# Certificate Renewal

## Summary

The goal of the cert-manager-csi driver is to provide a seamless integration of
cert-manager with deployments in Kubernetes. Instead of specifying additional
cert-manager resources alongside deployments, cert-manager-csi facilitates
specifying in-line volume mount certificate attributes that are honoured by the
driver. This reduces complexity for end users and moves cert-manager resource
management onto the driver itself.

Certificates expire and a well defined PKI infrastructure expects rotation of
these certificates reliably, when necessary.

## Motivation

Since certificates do and should expire, a certificate management tool is
reasonably expected to handle certificate rotation. It is the responsibility of
the cert-manager-csi driver to implement renewal of certificates that have been
created through the in-line volume mount.

### Goals

- Specify a standard for the directory tree of the target data directory that is
  used to mount volumes to pods.
- Specify a metadata file that is used to discover existing certificates.
- Implement watchers to wait for a specified period before marking these
  certificates for renewal.
- Implement a renewal process for rotating certificates for the target pod.
- Reliably rediscover node certificates in the event of a driver restart on a
  node.
- Expose options for configuring the renewal process on a volume by volume basis
  (disabling rotation, use the same private key, renew before duration).

### Non-Goals

- Require additional changes to upstream cert-manager to facilitate renewal.
- Rely on the use of cert-manager's `Certificate` resource to facilitate renewal
  functionality.

## Proposal

### Directory Structure

In order to reliably discover and manage certificates for writing and watching,
the directory structure needs to be consistent and deterministic for the driver.
The main data directory will house multiple directories, each responsible for
housing volume metadata as well as the mount point itself. It is possible that
this main data directory contains other data created which should be successfully
ignored by the driver.

Each volume directory is named using the format of:

```
cert-manager-csi-$POD_NAMESPACE-$POD_NAME-$VOLUME_ID
```

This naming scheme ensures full namespacing of directory names whereby even if a
single pod contains multiple cert-manager-csi volume mounts, each volume ID is
ensured to be unique in this location. If anything external has created a
directory name and causes a conflict, the driver should fail to create the
volume until it has been resolved.

Inside the pod directory contains the metadata file of the volume as well as the
mount directory. Although the mount directory can have any child directory
structure since a user can specify the key and certificate location, typically
the directory will only contain 3 files at its root containing the key,
certificate, and CA if available.

```
/cert-manager-csi-$POD_NAMESPACE-$POD_NAME-$VOLUME_ID/
-- /metadata.json
-- /data/
---- /ca.pem
---- /crt.pem
---- /key.pem
```

### Meta Data File

In order to retain information about the volume attributes, even if the driver
has been restarted, data needs to be persisted on local storage. If this method
was not taken, we would require to query the API server for all pods in the
cluster, then sort the pods that have a cert-manager-csi volume attached and
match by node. By keeping a local store, we eliminate our need for API server
accesses to pods and reduce complexity. Volume mount attributes are immutable so
the data shall not change during a pod's life cycle.

The contents of the meta data includes the volume attributes
`map[string]string`, the volume ID and target path. With this a full recreation
of the information for each volume can be made.

The file will be stored as a `.json` file type. This is a widely used and
understood file type and Go has good support for converting to and from Go
structs and Json string.

### Certificate Watchers

Each volume on the driver node will have its own long running Go routine that
waits for the certificate to be ready for renewal. The default renew before
duration will be the same used as in the cert-manager API (30 days). This
option can be changed using a volume attribute
`csi.certmanager.k8s.io/renew-before` that takes a Go time duration string.

Once the Go routine has reached this duration, the certificate should be marked
for renewal and trigger a re-fetch of a certificate.

If the volume is unpublished (pod deleted), then the corresponding Go routine
should also be killed.

The Go routine can be prevented, and as such renewal not to take place, via the
volume attribute `csi.certmanager.k8s.io/disbale-auto-renew` set to `true`.

### Renewal Procedure

Once a certificate has been marked for renewal, the driver will attempt to
discover if an existing cert-manger `CertificateRequest` exists. If so, the
driver should delete it. A new private key will not be created if the volume
attribute `csi.certmanager.k8s.io/reuse-private-key` is set to `true`.

The driver then creates the `CertificateRequest` the same way and retrieves the
new signed certificate. Once complete, the files are written to the mount
directory, overriding the previous files.

### Discovery

On start, the driver should perform a local discovery on the data directory
to find any existing volume mounts. Upon finding each meta data file, the Go
routine watchers should be rebuilt to be ready to mark them for renewal.

### New Volume Attributes

| Attribute                                 | Description                                               | Default | Example |
|-------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------|
| csi.certmanager.k8s.io/renew-before       | Time duration to attempt a renewal of the certificate.    | 30d     | 24h     |
| csi.certmanager.k8s.io/reuse-private-key  | Reuse the same private key when renewing the certificate. | false   | true    |

### Test Plan

With the inclusion of more volume attribute options, more validation needs to
be written to ensure they are sane and compatible values.

Implement end to end tests to ensure renewal is successful and complient with
this design document.

### Risks and Mitigations

- If other data exists in the data directory then the driver should be able to
  successfully ignore this data.
- If requesting the certificate was successful but the volume has not yet been
  mounted, the driver should be able to detect this and attempt to mount the
  volume.
